Hey everyone.
Welcome back to Boost Your Income
With Bootstrap To WordPress.
We're almost done here.
We're gonna be trying to get our
website live on the Internet, and
the only way to do that is to have
an affordable and reliable web host.
Let me tell you about that.
[MUSIC]
Hey everyone.
Welcome Back.
I hope you are as excited as I am.
We're wrapping up the final
part of the project here.
Now, it's good to know that this
course will be ever growing, and
there will be new sections and
lectures coming in the future.
And it will be ever growing,
ever changing,
and updating to keep adding
value to the course.
But for right now we're wrapping up this
part of the project where we are gonna be
putting our Board Press website live.
And for those of you who don't
have much experience with
web hosting it's totally fine.
Have a free course out there
called Web Hosting 101,
and you can access that for free.
Takes you from beginning to end,
purchasing, domain and
hosting, and getting your website live.
I even show you how to install
a WordPress site or a WordPress blog and
write your first blog post
in about five minutes.
So, useful course to take if you
haven't taken it, totally suggest it,
otherwise you can keep
following along here.
I'm gonna give you a little bit of
a guide through how to get your web
hosting set up.
So it's really good to know that you
need a reliable host when it comes to
WordPress because you're using PHP, you're
using databases and some hosts out there,
and I can't wrap my mind around this,
why this is the case,
they don't support PHP or they don't
support the latest version of PHP.
Sometimes they don't
let you have databases.
Sometimes you have to pay to upgrade
to be able to have databases.
It's just crazy.
There are great hosts out there and
the one I always use is Justhost.
And you probably even saw it here in
the resources section of your site.
Justhost right here.
And you can even read.
This is my testimonial for
Justhost right here.
When I made my first website seven years
ago, I signed up with Justhost and
never looked back.
Since then I've literally built
hundreds of websites with Justhost and
I've used them as my
exclusive hosting provider.
I have used different
hosts in the past and
I sometimes use other hosts
when my clients require that or
they have different hosting packages,
but I always come back to Justhost.
And in fact, in some cases,
I've worked on a client website and
we've run into some major hosting issues,
almost at the end of the project where
we need to launch the site and
it's not working.
So then we end up scrapping their host and
then repurchasing a new
hosting package with JustHost so they can
actually have a reliable hosting provider.
And so that's why I suggest JustHost.
So, if you have your own host,
that's totally fine.
You might even have JustHost from my
recommendation and that's amazing,
thank you so much.
And also it is good to know if you do use
these links these are my affiliate links.
If you see Brad .ca/justhost
that is my affiliate link.
And that means I'll get
a commission if you
decide to make a purchase with that link,
and at no extra cost to you.
So it costs the same regardless
if you use my link or not.
It just means that I get a little bit of
a bonus, because I sent you their way.
And I only will ever send you through
an affiliate link if I use that product or
service and I recommend it or use it
exclusively and can sing it's praises.
And JustHost I couldn't
sing it's praises enough.
So that's what we're going to do.
I'm going to show you here how
to get started with JustHost.
So go ahead and get started with JustHost.
And you'll be taken to
the justhost.com website here, and
go ahead and just sign up now.
You can see it's starting
at $2.95 per month, and
that price ranges anywhere from $2.95,
$3.95,
$5.99 is their base price, so right here,
this is a good introductory offer.
Go ahead and sign up now.
And this is if you don't have hosting.
If you do have hosting,
then you don't have to do this,
you could skip this lecture altogether and
move onto the next one.
But this is if you don't have hosting you
need to get yourself a good hosting plan.
So right here you can see Starter,
Plus, Business Pro.
Select the one that you want.
You can go ahead and select the Starter
one, or if you want to have unlimited web
sites, that's what I would recommend,
because you're gonna be building more and
more sites over time,
if you're a web developer, especially.
And if you just have one site,
that's totally fine.
Go ahead and just do Starter.
So select your plan, and
then if you need a domain name,
type in your domain name that you need.
Choose if it's a .com, ca, org, net,
so on and so forth, then hit Next.
If you have a domain name,
type that in there and hit Next.
Leave the coupon code as is, don't
play with that because you might lose
the discount that they give you and
that's no good, no one wants that.
Once you've typed in your domain name,
hit Next.
And then go ahead and fill out your
information, First Name, Last Name,
optional Business Name, your Country,
all the rest of your info right here.
Make sure to choose your
package information, so
you can choose plus 1 month,
12, 24, 36, or you can upgrade.
Set up fee, primary domain,
registration, that's all free.
And then this stuff is all optional and
totally up to you if you want to do this.
So you can have Domain Privacy,
Site Backup, SiteLock Domain Security,
Search Engine Jumpstart,
gGoogle Apps for Work.
You don't need to add these, but
if you do want to add them then
you can totally check them off.
And then add in your information.
You can pay by credit card or
pay with PayPal.
Confirm, and then hit next.
You'll be sent an email with your
confirmation info, your receipt, and
your login information for your hosting
control panel, plus FTP information.
That's important, keep that email
in a safe place, stored away,
archive it, and keep it,
you're going to need it.
And then that information in that email,
you have the login information for
your control panel.
To get to your control panel,
you just go my.justhost.com,
and then you'll be taken
to the login screen.
You'll type in your domain or
you user name that was provided and
then the password that you were given,
submit log-in and
then you'll be taken
to your control panel.
So basically this is your
control panel for JustHost.
It's called cPanel and there are a lot
of hosts out there that use cPanel,
which is great because if
you're a web developer and
your client uses a different hosting
package, or hosting provider all together,
but that client uses cPanel that's
awesome because then you kinda already
know your way around if you're
familiar with JustHost like I am.
So you can do a getting started help
wizard or check the help center,
things like that if you wanna get any more
further assistance with the control panel.
But you can see,
you manage your email here,
you got some website tools,
file manager, things like that.
You can manage your domains here if you
have any add on domains or extra domains,
things like that.
Here you can install Word Press.
So this is one way of
installing WordPress.
In the Web Hosting 101 course we did
it this way where you click this.
You chose the directory,
you want to install WordPress and
boom it installs WordPress.
You can do that.
And it's very simple, but sometimes you
want to have more customization and
more ability to manage how
WordPress is installed,
and to make sure that it is secure,
using nongeneric settings.
So that's what we're gonna
do in the next lecture.
We're going to install
WordPress like a pro.
See you there.
[MUSIC]